Gwenevere Abriel: Hi, good morning. Let's do a sound check
Ariel Mirabal: Check to hear me.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can see and hear me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay. Well, good morning to you.
Good morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, looks like you did I make you wait very long.
Gwenevere Abriel: No cuz I I get like that, after
Gwenevere Abriel: After group. I have a 7am group and it's difficult to sort of and exactly right on time.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh yeah, I get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's get to know here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Are we yeah with your treatment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Psychosocial
Gwenevere Abriel: We've got another week before we review.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tension or the lack thereof over at the house, how are things over there.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, it's pretty good. There's only just one day it was like a few days ago, there was a little bit of
Ariel Mirabal: Tension. I guess I would say just the dogs. I have my dog here which is he's nice. And he's getting along with the other dog.
Ariel Mirabal: And their dog. But the other day and it was my boyfriend's mom, she was walking in and I don't know. It was like a jealousy thing they got
Ariel Mirabal: Too close to each other. And I think my dog kind of nip data or something and it was just, we were just all kind of freaked out, but it was like
Ariel Mirabal: She was pretty upset and I don't know, is this kind of I felt really bad. So there's that. But everything's been fine and around the house and things. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it looks like there was an invitation for you to be practicing in order to sort of have the habit of remembering
Gwenevere Abriel: The belly breathing at least three times a day, just so that it's like remember easier because practice practice practice by them will remember it in a pinch or under high stress situation.
Ariel Mirabal: And I have been doing it, I can admit though I don't think I've been doing it three times a day, like I should have been, but I've been doing it a little bit every day at least once every day. I've done it.
Ariel Mirabal: I really okay work. I enjoy doing it and trying trying to do it. I think I'm still not quite perfected at it. But like you said, I will be
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you use it, let's say as an intentional coping mechanism or did you do it as just part of a sort of a meditative practice you are already calm. Like, when did you use it. Do you remember
Ariel Mirabal: Actually both
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, I can say, I'm like, after you showed it to me after I learned it. I was
Ariel Mirabal: Pretty much excited to like learn it and try to figure out, you know, doing it on my own. So I think they're the first few days I was probably just there were times where I did it just, I was already calm. I was just kind of felt like I was practicing, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: You need to do it, but there were also times where it was like, you know, with my daughter or something.
Ariel Mirabal: Those things that we talked about. I, I definitely did it with those things and and that's where I'm that's where I'm like, it's helpful. It really is. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is where our technology can actually be an ally and if you say, Well, I do want to see if I can really develop the tissue in my brain because it's actual tissue formation those neuron synapses are actual tissue.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I can do that if I can make it.
Gwenevere Abriel: A wider lane highway or instead of a a once walked path up a mountain. Now it's an eight lane highway, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: On on the 10 freeway in California, then it's a lot easier. You know I'm saying, like, that's what it's like. Think about the eight lane highway, you got going on for those pills.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know I'm saying, You gotta switch it up. So your head number that way. So it's not. I gotta
Gwenevere Abriel: go hiking boots. We want to have that as many connections as you can to these healthier approaches.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm just going to throw it out there. This is just your choice. But when you leave here today, or if you could decide to say, you know what, when
Gwenevere Abriel: I have so much going on in my life that if I don't do it right now. It won't get done. So I'm going to give you an idea and you can tell me what you want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would say to put alarms in your phone more getting an app that has these little reminders that like there's a little com app.
Ariel Mirabal: Or I saw that I really like that. I like those.
Ariel Mirabal: That's really good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So check that out. Or you could set an alarm three times a day, and
Gwenevere Abriel: You have this little alarm that goes off, it has a special little sound your daughter could hear it and she could be like, Oh, let's do our breathing, get our animals in our pets and little fuzzy animals to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And just making it a part of the routine. Just a thought. You're going to kind of be able to play without and say oh no I don't, I don't want it to be so so contrived okay um
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's there for you, like, let's say, a month from now or whenever this is forgotten because that'll happen you and I'll get into all these other things.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll say one person breathing going, they'll say what
Ariel Mirabal: Haven't been doing
Gwenevere Abriel: This one so critical to the brain being able to remember all the other ones. That's why I keep asking you to keep checking in. Okay, so just throwing it out there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I also, I'm looking at some notes, it looks like we're starting to do a little bit of preparation work for a resourcing
Gwenevere Abriel: We did one thing last time. Looks like we developed our you developed the container, which was a cathedral sized library need a brick walls and that can be locked with a key and you have the one key.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the end. I remember you had an interesting approach, there was this processing time that you made sure you took despite my moving on with 10 different things coming at you like, Oh, no, it's going to this one that I want about this one, this one and this one and you're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm still over here.
Ariel Mirabal: On that one. I still remember it, too. I mean, I've definitely thought about it, even after I got off the phone so stuck.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've seen you do it.
Twice.
Ariel Mirabal: So many more times. Yeah, and
Cool.
Ariel Mirabal: Because
Gwenevere Abriel: You have your time. This is your time. This isn't my agenda, whether I get to tick mark all my little tools. I want to teach you. No, no, no, no. Second. Second row stuff you're in the front row what you want out of this your pace your rate of processing is the most important pace, not mine.
Ariel Mirabal: Sometimes it takes me a little bit to process certain things. I don't know why, but
Gwenevere Abriel: That's normal for us to have different process rates. And so, for example, I've been in group and you'll probably notice this, I did this thing, you know, in class when the teacher says, and who can do you know four divided into 11
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's some kid in there that raises their hand right away, right. Did you see me do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: We think that students smart because they came up with the answer fast and we don't know. We're smart too. We just take longer, or we're still looking at the color of the chart work on
Gwenevere Abriel: Magenta. I can't tell.
Gwenevere Abriel: That color because it's projected on the screen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it will be purple if it was right there in front of me, but because the light is transferring through it, it's like all kind of looks like magenta. Now, I mean, dude.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did we people do that. So it's not a reflection of my intelligence. My capability, it's a it's a matter of focus for some people it's this, it's not right, wrong. It's just different.
Gwenevere Abriel: That same kid that does this might also be insensitive or miss useful information because they didn't catch and we're sitting a little bit longer.
Gwenevere Abriel: With other pieces of what's going on in their sort of social environment or right their emotional intelligence part. It's not right, it's not wrong. It's just who you are.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I just want to let you know that's fine perfectly fine.
Ariel Mirabal: Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, let's go over here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to show you what I want to do. I've got i'd like to today, continue around these metaphor. And these images because they're going to serve us and other activities that that we may or may not do.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like to hear from you. Using imagination. This is right brain stuff, same as that federal size container.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like you to think of
Gwenevere Abriel: An image either real or imagined of three figures and we're going to develop them and I'll be able to, I use this source team in the future. So the first one. Okay, again let me use the instructions of real or imagined, which means
Gwenevere Abriel: Be an animal could be from a movie from a TV show can be an amalgamation of smooching of different figures on wide open.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'm checking just the only part that I would invite is that it be pure and the reason I say pure and clean is if there's ambivalence, meaning I find this protective figure
Gwenevere Abriel: But this is also someone who's hitting me, I'm probably won't want that one. Does that make sense. I don't want it to be a mixture want it to be singular if possible.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I'd like you to do now is I'd like you to think of an image of real or imagined a protective figure what comes up for you.
Ariel Mirabal: My dad. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: And it is no longer here.
Ariel Mirabal: If he's real though it's not imaginative
Ariel Mirabal: That's the very, very first thing that came up for me it was always, always, always my protector and I feel like even though he's not here, he still is my protector.
Ariel Mirabal: Barely can be
Ariel Mirabal: Nice that happen. And I'm like, my dad was watching over me. My dad was here. You know, I really, I'm a huge believer and my dad's an angel. HE'S OUR GUARDIAN ANGEL.
Ariel Mirabal: So I do
There we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if I were to bring us back to this resource through some of the work we may do if I said things like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Arielle I'd like you to bring up to your, your working memory now that image of a protective figure your dad, even now still as the guardian angel always protecting would that work for you.
Ariel Mirabal: Absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, using that language is okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, that's, that's perfectly okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful. So I've got those notes in here. Fantastic. Even better was real. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have that lived. You have probably lots of little snapshot images of it take to pull on and drawn to feel more solid. So let's now go to this other one
Gwenevere Abriel: This other figure is nurturing figure. This is a figure that wants for you, your growth potential your
Gwenevere Abriel: Success whatever potential right it wants for you to to sort of reach your goals, your growth.
Gwenevere Abriel: It may or may not have the affection part that part's a little less relevant for this work.
Gwenevere Abriel: real or imagined someone who wants for you to reach your full growth potential online not worried about me but once for you right super cheerleader just super champion. You go, girl. You got this, you got this.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh man, my daughter.
Oh,
Ariel Mirabal: And the first like I thought my mom to. I wish I could have to my mom and my daughter.
With me
Ariel Mirabal: But when you said that you know just cheering you on. I thought about my daughter right away, you know, of course, my mom, she would be
Ariel Mirabal: She wants me to succeed. She wants me to be the greatest I can be. And she always tells me, and she is really awesome and successful in grade, but she wants me to be even better than her you know she's
Ariel Mirabal: She's always said that. So, but my daughter. She really, like I said, when he said that she. She shines on me with things, you know, she's so sweet and
Ariel Mirabal: Of course we teach other things too, but when I do something or helping with something. She'll be like, mom. Thank you so much. Mom, you know, she's just
Ariel Mirabal: She's very reassuring sometimes, you know, even just as a little four year old. My daughter is awesome, she is. She's my she's my biggest cheerleader. She's, she's often
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just move just let me dip out for just a moment. Those are got them written down. We've got my daughter reassuring and my mom wants me to succeed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's move just a little bit into imagination on this one. Just let me just check on something.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember I was saying earlier that there's just you taking
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just you taking
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not giving to them, not in this scenario, I want you to just see what comes up someone that just wants for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you don't really have to compromise.
Gwenevere Abriel: What image comes up that pure and simple wants for, you know, mixed message. No, no guilt trip know if there are no yes but pure and simple wants for you to reach your potential, tell me what the first thing that comes to mind.
Ariel Mirabal: The first thing that came to my mind when you said that was like my work things I do like my my passion for insurance. I'm an insurance producer. I think that
Ariel Mirabal: If I'm being more just trying to, if I'm not thinking of like an actual person, it would be what I love to do that makes
Ariel Mirabal: That makes me want
Ariel Mirabal: Or I'm trying to articulate what you said.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it's what I'd love to do so. So
Gwenevere Abriel: You get from the work
Gwenevere Abriel: It continues to challenge you and help you learn new things pushes you to the edge to want to learn helps you kind of see that you are capable strong intelligent person does it do that for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it does. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: What do we call this work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever you want. But I just want to label it so
Gwenevere Abriel: That I can bring us back to it.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah inch insurance agent, I guess, and trans producer. I don't know how
Ariel Mirabal: It does. It makes me feel accomplished. I mean, I did have to do you know my education for that I had to study. I had to take a huge state exam and get my
Ariel Mirabal: License and you know it was a huge accomplishment and I it was one of those moments where I was like, man, I wish my dad was here to see
Ariel Mirabal: It was really, you know, and it does. It makes me feel really intelligent and like I said accomplished and it kind of makes me want to strive to get even higher than that, you know, and maybe like a director or something and insurance. One day you know something bigger.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me ask you something.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that the self. Are you your biggest champion.
Ariel Mirabal: I think so.
Ariel Mirabal: I do have a lot of drive
Ariel Mirabal: And right now, huge amounts of motivation, you know, a lot of help from people who who obviously love and care about me and stuff and the counseling. It really helps.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just as I said that. How did that feel when I said maybe you
Gwenevere Abriel: Are the cheerleader of the self. Maybe it's you. It's nurturing you
Ariel Mirabal: kind of surprising because
Ariel Mirabal: I've never really thought about it like that. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay well we're going to get to know this one will be able to. It's not a black and white thing will know it because they'll be able to check in with your body. You'll register. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That one fell away. I don't want that one anymore or do. It's really this is it's just my fingers on a keyboard, I can take out put in whatever we need to. Okay, it'll change or it won't. Both are fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I just
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to put in that it's flexible. It's malleable, we can change it as it becomes more and more fairy real like no, it is definitely not this. Oh, it's really this I'll just change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even if we have to wipe clean the whole thing. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Okay. Excellent. Beautiful. Beautiful. Let's do another one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, the same invitation. Try to catch the uncensored first response if you can
Gwenevere Abriel: real or imagined figure of wise figure
Gwenevere Abriel: My
Ariel Mirabal: Wise figure
Ariel Mirabal: I'm like blink without
Gwenevere Abriel: It.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just stay quiet with it. Okay. We can't quiet. Just sit with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like that processing that mind of yours. Let it work.
Ariel Mirabal: Would be a wise figure
Ariel Mirabal: I keep thinking about my dad, he's just the person he was. He was the last figure I always
Ariel Mirabal: You know, you know, even head to head with my mom. He was always the wise.
Ariel Mirabal: The wise one. I would absolutely say my dad. I mean, he's the first figure. I'm just to be imaginative, though, I think, is where I get get really, really stuck.
Gwenevere Abriel: Much. Okay, this, this, there's no wrong way to do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Though, well, I guess, I guess, in effect, it would be trying to say something. You think I want to hear that would be a waste of your time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. So if
Like I
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, I know I've got dad was the wise one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Always. Beautiful. Okay, let's do another another another metaphor.
Like
Ariel Mirabal: Oh, I liked him. I really do this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one's cool. I really, really, really like this one. This is pretty handy and you can couple this breathing with this imagery, which is interesting. So you can couple belly breathing with, for example.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm taking my discomfort with unknown or I'm taking my discomfort with my impulsivity, or I'm taking my discomfort and distress and putting it
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm maybe I'm labeling it in bulk. And I'm putting it in the shelves and it's bookmarked and clearly organized and I can get to it when I want to, but it's it's in that
Gwenevere Abriel: Library
Gwenevere Abriel: It's there.
Ariel Mirabal: And what kind of a feeling I read
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you say sorry I was just saying you can use some imagery. I'm about to come up with another one. So that one's a container metaphor.
Gwenevere Abriel: Imagery this one I'm going to do, I'm going to give you some examples. These are distancing metaphor. So one is compartmentalizing you kind of kind of locking it up and say, I'm not going to think about you right now. I feel you right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not going to process you right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one is this idea, but it's also moving away.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I want to write down is a little note of a distancing metaphor that works for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some examples to get that
Gwenevere Abriel: creative mind going
Gwenevere Abriel: To meet you for just a second. Got a little wind over there.
Gwenevere Abriel: So are you
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to do coming up with a distancing metaphor. So I'm going to give you some examples.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm standing on the side of a river and around me is my protective and wise to your of my dad.
Gwenevere Abriel: And also near me is my sense of accomplished self kind of proud of what I've done, and knowing I worked so hard. This is an earned reward and I sit on the shoreline.
Gwenevere Abriel: Off to the side on this creek or this river, and then I notice uncertainty fear regret floating on a leaf further
Gwenevere Abriel: Interesting kind of bouncing as it hits the rocks and it's moving further and further away. And then as I look again a glance back and I see. I can't even see it anymore. It's moved so far away.
Gwenevere Abriel: I might also take those same emotions and I put them on a little note and I put them in a helium balloon and I tie it up tight.
Ariel Mirabal: And I
Gwenevere Abriel: Let it go. As it moves into the atmosphere.
Gwenevere Abriel: The move
Gwenevere Abriel: To jostle by the wind and then slowly but surely I can't distinguish it from the sky and it's so tiny.
Ariel Mirabal: It's gone.
Ariel Mirabal: And see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or might be a rocket ship that goes out into the atmosphere so fast. Or it might be a sailboat, as I stay on the seaside on the sand with my feet. Nestled in and I can see the sailboat moving away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like the car.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now I'm going this way and as I see that negative thought pass in the opposite direction I catch it for just a brief moment and then it passes and it's going the opposite direction. And I look in the rearview mirror and I see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then when I look again. No, I can't even see it but I continued the direction I was going
Gwenevere Abriel: So those are distancing maybe a train. It's on one of those cars and you hear the sound it's going down the train tracks.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can you can see that train anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: Those are distancing metaphors. We're taking something putting sort of it on that and it moves away away. Away, away further and further away.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what came up. What was an idea you had
Ariel Mirabal: Standing on a big, big giant Hill and
Ariel Mirabal: Taking those negative thoughts.
Ariel Mirabal: And just writing them all down on a piece of paper and putting them in
Ariel Mirabal: Like a huge ball and standing at the top of this hill just let the ball go and
Know,
Ariel Mirabal: Let it go, and just watch it roll down the hill and a wave just away and get further and further and further away until I just can't see it anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: Until I can't see it. So that's the one I wanted to hear. Until I can't see. So it's a really quite high. This hill.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, can't see it. There we go, beautiful garden.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: See, can you imagine using with the breath. Also, and you can picture doing this with with your daughter to write can picture. Oh. Where's all that anger or doubt that frustration.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to check the budget in a ball.
Down.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see it going down further, just, it feels awful all that anger is getting further away.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got
Ariel Mirabal: To I'll do things with her like
Ariel Mirabal: When she has to go potty. And she's playing or something, and she doesn't want to stop playing to go potty.
Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Well, she doesn't have accidents, but she just wait so long and to hold it in. So I'll tell her. Okay, well, your eyes are getting kind of yellow, your eyes are getting yellow. You gotta go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Super cute. Yeah. Yeah. You know how to make things into a game, you have a lot of fun with her. That's cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah all a game. Now we can take something that normally seems kind of daunting and intimidating and we can change our relationship to those emotions.
Ariel Mirabal: It's a great idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: First, so I am
Thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: I would like to start developing with you because you're moving along quite quickly here I'd like to develop with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: An anchor room. Now this in and of itself, yes, those things I just did with you are kind of cutesy, but this is an actual. Not only is it a useful metaphor. This room this happy place. Perfect room, we're going to create
Gwenevere Abriel: But it has a lot of therapeutic effect in the development of it and it can take sometimes a few sessions to get through it.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I do need to the ladies room for 60 seconds so
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you see the yellow and my eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: You may remember
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to go run out and do that, and then I'll be right back. But I do take some time to the snake and prepare for this piece. Try and think about
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to start with where you're kind of stuck.
Gwenevere Abriel: With a psychological, emotional, behavioral, intellectual, whether it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of thought process, beliefs, things like that where you've been trying to solve a particular dilemma or something and you're just kind of stuck around us to take some time and think about that and I'll be right back.
Okay, awesome.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, sorry.
Hi.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: The idea here is to sort of identify where you continue to sort of still feel blocked. Maybe you bump up against something and self appraisal or there's an inner personal thing or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I had asked out a little earlier. What it, what were you thinking about
Ariel Mirabal: So I thought about a couple of things, actually.
Ariel Mirabal: One of them is our situation right now. I feel really stuck with
Ariel Mirabal: I guess the biggest problem being the Chrome virus THING WE ARE HAVING AN ISSUE finding our own house and stuff. We're having to stay with his parents and stuff so I definitely feel really stuck in that position and not being able to really do anything.
Ariel Mirabal: And jobs even are hard right now, just everything is just kind of I feel really stuck with that but
Ariel Mirabal: At one point, and I'm not, I'm not sure that I so much anymore. Feel so stuck with this, but when I think about my daughter. And when I was struggling with
Ariel Mirabal: Keeping myself calm with her and not snapping at her so often and so easily when she does something wrong, you know, instead of just trying to redirect her in a better way.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm doing really, really good with that but at one point I felt like
Ariel Mirabal: I was really stuck. I felt like there was something wrong with me like I needed to be on medication or something to calm myself down, but I'm not really that
Ariel Mirabal: Bad, and I see it. I already realized that this is happening and I don't necessarily have to try extremely hard not to do that, you know, I just have to
Ariel Mirabal: Breathe and realize my moment, you know, and I've been doing really good with that. So yeah, at one point, that was a place that I actually did feel stuck, though, like calming myself down
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah I and I recognize that. Because right now, I have in front of me a goal of yours, which is I want to slow down my mind and slow down the running thought
Gwenevere Abriel: Something you walked in the door. You also said
Gwenevere Abriel: I continue, I want to continue to continue to be with positive people that will help me stay clean. Do I want to be more patient with my daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to research more fun activities to do with my daughter and I wrote something down. You didn't say this. I don't do these very often but i i wanted to address your history of a word you use, which was depressed. So I wrote a goal down
Gwenevere Abriel: And we can talk now about whether it's something you like or not, which is decrease reported symptoms of depression. Right.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you know you and I haven't done this, this first objective, which is I write this part, I always write the, the objective part I like to hear from you guys and I can change actually love to change the goal from my wording to your wording.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what I wrote. As far as the objective. In other words, things that we can do is I said client will identify warning signs of D compensating maladaptive function in self talk
Gwenevere Abriel: In her sleeping in her eating in her interpersonal communication and enjoyment of otherwise pleasurable activities. Okay, super complicated. I know, but it's basically saying
Gwenevere Abriel: What are the warning signs.
Gwenevere Abriel: If we can say him. Why then we might recognize him. I might recognize him first. Or you might say it's it's heading down that road again these are something that these are my signs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. So when
Ariel Mirabal: You think of because you said that I do feel of what there's little bunny.
Gwenevere Abriel: I do
Ariel Mirabal: We have, we get a lot of them and I are here. Um, I feel stuck in the sense that I still have the cravings. I feel stuck with the I still feel stuck with the alcohol addiction.
Ariel Mirabal: And the talk therapy and my support is definitely helped me away from that. But I'm still not completely away from it. And I know that because I still I you know i've relapsed with the alcohol before
Ariel Mirabal: You know recently and I also just I still have bought a lot of them, and I still have a lot of cravings to
Ariel Mirabal: Every day. It's a fight. Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: Like I remember how funny it was and stuff. And then sometimes it'll like if I'm
Ariel Mirabal: Actually having a good time. It can happen. Either way, I'm having a bad day at something happens. And I'm like, oh God, and you just need a drum. This feeling or
Ariel Mirabal: The opposite when I'm having a really good day and I'm like, wow, I remember when we used to have such a good you know
Ariel Mirabal: Such a good time and we would be drinking. You know, so it's like, I wonder if I just have one drink right now and
Ariel Mirabal: You know what I mean if it'll make things more fun. Like, I still have those crazy thoughts like, I just wish they would go away. I feel really stuck with that. It's probably the biggest
Gwenevere Abriel: I wrote that down. I think that that's an important part and
Gwenevere Abriel: There are people in your group, which one are you attending again. Where are you
Ariel Mirabal: I'm in the 11am on Thursdays.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you are actually you're in a group where people are struggling like you there. There's that same. It's in there. I've got some folks that identify as their drug of choice in other groups to with the alcohol.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it may seem like oh, everything is all about heroin and purpose. That's an oxymoron, right. But there's this dual thing going on for a lot of people, sometimes it's not an alcohol. Sometimes it's math or something but
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're addressing all of it. Okay. And, but it's hard to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: everything all at once. We still gotta pick somewhere to focus. And right now, what we what we started with was really quick getting an emotional regulation skill in place and just, just to reinforce when you have that craving. It is craving is not
Gwenevere Abriel: This nebulous thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's like craving is is no
Gwenevere Abriel: Breathing has
Gwenevere Abriel: definable behaviors and that behavior is a plot a behavior is
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, how did that craving craving is a is a synaptic connection. Now, that's enough to connection may have been to a smell that you don't even remember that you smelled it could have been something you saw it for you. You just told us, you just said.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's connected to laughing smiling to having a good time. One of them anyway, is to already having fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's connected to all the
Ariel Mirabal: Time.
Gwenevere Abriel: You had fun when you were drinking. There's nothing broken about you. You're not broken.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's normal. You just have a whole bunch of connections. Okay, you have a whole network full of it. So you and I can't be surprised that you keep having those memories come up and those thoughts. Here's the part that comes into play. Number one, you're not broken. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing wrong with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number two, the more you practice these alternative ways of meeting.
Gwenevere Abriel: At initial
Gwenevere Abriel: Memory. Oh, I just, oh yeah, I remember. Oh yeah, I was drinking that time to oh I was drinking on that time too. Oh yeah, but it was fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice how I went to, oh yeah, oh yeah, it was fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't just stop at my first one I kept it going and kept feeding it with my second. Oh yeah, there's this other time was fun, and then up. Oh, hey.
Gwenevere Abriel: I could do that. Now there's a couple beers. I'll just have a couple beers. So I could have stopped to this right here with this first one. Oh yeah, I remember, fun, fun without the hall.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can stop this thing that we call just this craving that we're helpless to I'm theatrically animating it right now it just
Ariel Mirabal: Turned up
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. So what we call a craving. It actually has tangible things that we can intervene around
Gwenevere Abriel: We can use our self talk or self identity and say I'm not broken. I'm not wrong. This is normal to have the thought, even though
Gwenevere Abriel: There's so many negative consequences at stake here. Why would I thought, oh, this is normal. I just have lots as a huge neural network lots of images and also has to do with it. That makes sense. But I do have to be deliberate about stop.
Gwenevere Abriel: I cannot keep romanticizing it
Gwenevere Abriel: You keep adding. Oh, yeah. And there was this other time and don't forget about this one. And oh my gosh, you remember what I did. And like I never would have done it without that. But let me
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you right
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: There's somebody yelling or something.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You feel like you're in danger. You okay
Ariel Mirabal: Like what does that sound. No, it's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, you see what I'm saying about creating so we call it this bird craving, but really we can we can materialize it a little bit more. We can make it more tangible and say that was a thought.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was triggered. I don't even remember what the trigger was anymore. But there it was, what did I do
Gwenevere Abriel: Did I say, Oh, I'm helpless to, uh, gosh, I have these cravings and I better just I'm going to give in to it eventually. And I'll just drink know we get into it and we say, okay, I don't have a lot of skills yet, but I've done one
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got one.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can do this with such fidelity that I will be able to go into my next group and say, Okay, I want to teach belly breathing. Everyone in group today. I'm kidding, but kind of half kidding. You're more than welcome to do that, you, you. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Do you want to go.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to check something
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, let me just check and see getting over
Gwenevere Abriel: Was it
Ariel Mirabal: Was an old man singing like singing at the top of his lungs singing while he's walking are so cute.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fantastic. WELL, IT'S GOOD THING WE DIDN'T CALL THE POLICE then
Gwenevere Abriel: I was like, looking up your address. I was like, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: He would
Gwenevere Abriel: Say, so you can hear what I'm doing right you can hear this takes effort.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are you in it. You want to stay in this fight. You want to say, okay, it's going to take effort. It is not going to be. I don't think more difficult than you're making yourself study that extra hour and all the stress of having to sit and
Gwenevere Abriel: Take that exam.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think it's the same skills that you used okay you have it in you to do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: The first thing
Gwenevere Abriel: Is you're gonna have to change that inner voice or you could you could change the inner voice of
Ariel Mirabal: How you talk,
Gwenevere Abriel: To the attic, the attics, the one that saying, remember we had fun. It could be even more fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember this one. Hey, look at this one, you're like, Okay, I'll look at one let me look at one more that was, yeah. Yeah, that was pretty cool. So you notice how the inner voice. You're kinda remember I've done this with you that inner voice, you're entertaining it
Gwenevere Abriel: Think about it now.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you really need. What is Arielle really the authentic self loving right this mother this growth oriented entrepreneur this go getter type of person. Right. What is that voice really need to say to the addict in that moment.
Ariel Mirabal: Just shut up.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, stop.
Gwenevere Abriel: That'll shut up.
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice, we call it, I call it thought stopping, but that inner voice is going to have to be a bit rude.
Gwenevere Abriel: Shut up, I were raised, we're not supposed to talk like that, but inside this guy has no respect for you whatsoever. None.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to take a very, very, very, very firm boundary. Shut up. Shut up, and you just go, shut up, shut up, shut up, for we need to do, what do I need to do 1234 I'm going to breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to take a while for you to remember and by while I mean fractions of seconds, but that can feel really long when when those images that come in quick
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's shut up, shut up, shut up, shut up, shut up, shut up, shut up. What's that thing I said thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I've got a little picture of a breathing picture online medicine cabinet or you've got some image of
Gwenevere Abriel: Remembering to brain. Remember to breathe a little mama. You've got little stickies around the house to help you remember because if we're going to remember things better visual cues. So shut up.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then with fidelity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, and I can be saying I just remembered something else I could be thinking about putting that little booger in a container. Whoa, I could put him in a container per ride on what your, your attic looks like when I could be, it could be putting it into distancing metaphor to
Gwenevere Abriel: crumpling it up. Right. Shut up. Shut up. Shut up. Shut up. Shut up. Shut up. Shut up, rolling down the hill. Notice that you're actually thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, then you're thinking I'm having to work hard to visualize. Well, what would the paper be but I have had written shut up 100 times
Gwenevere Abriel: Then scrambled it
Gwenevere Abriel: But I yelled at it spit on it sat on it stood on it. What would you know get into that your brain will be in a different neural network when you're doing that you may come away from this angle that's just seems ridiculous.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's a thought what you're calling craving. It's not some spiritual lightning bolt that comes down, it's coming. It's coming from right here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's stop hanging out here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let's come over here somewhere else, different part of the brain that goofy place that kid that part that's like, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: As soon as this imagery stuff. And I'll remember my breathing. You've got these two things. Now you've got breathing. We've got some imagery. So you do those instead
Gwenevere Abriel: And then guess what happens, time has passed your, your confidence, your self advocacy your resilience your perseverance, you're now in a different moment. Now, you're like, Oh, I got through those seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can get through the next 90 I'm going to get up your real quick. We'll do some yoga stretches. What do I need to do to rub some lotion on my hand.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where is she calling wanting lightning don't know. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to shut up for just a second. I want to hear what you're hearing. I want to hear where this is going. In
Ariel Mirabal: From what you just said to I feel like also remembering who I was before I started drinking is another way that I'm
Ariel Mirabal: When I'm able to just stop those thoughts and say, Just shut up you know it's also, you know, the breathing and all of that. Also, but another thing is also remembering. I mean, I miss myself. I really, really miss myself.
Ariel Mirabal: Only two extremely bad
Ariel Mirabal: The last couple years as far as drinking
Gwenevere Abriel: But. But who is she, so let's let's label her I'll write it in here when we describe her. What is she
Ariel Mirabal: This sober person.
Ariel Mirabal: I mean,
Ariel Mirabal: Extremely confidence.
Ariel Mirabal: I mean, sober. I had a lot of
Ariel Mirabal: I felt like I had more willpower. I just had a lot more
Ariel Mirabal: Drive to do things every day for myself with my family, you know, to get things done that needed to get done and you know getting so lost in the alcohol. I completely lost myself. I miss who I was, I
Ariel Mirabal: I remembered
Ariel Mirabal: Birthdays, and you know what I mean. I remembered what happened on these really awesome family get togethers and things when you go and drinking. It's like
Ariel Mirabal: I don't I don't miss waking up sick and I don't miss forgetting what happened the night before and you know I don't miss waking up tired and not wanting to tend to my day and just wanting to drink and oh I drink so much. I can't go anywhere. Now, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: I don't want miss. I don't
Ariel Mirabal: Want that life anymore and I miss how I used to be before that got in the way. I was nowhere near i mean
Ariel Mirabal: I'm just
Ariel Mirabal: I can see all of the changes, even when I was still drinking every day. I could still see. I was like, my god, I never used to be like this. This is awful. Okay. Very almost
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go on the affirmative.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was Con. Stream Lee confident. I remember birthdays. Tell me more about the things that you do when you are in your sobriety. What are positive things
Ariel Mirabal: I got ready. Every day I did my hair every day and my makeup. I mean, just like when I was in high school I was always a huge fan of just like
Ariel Mirabal: Was just school, but I thought I had to look like a supermodel every day when I went to school, so I was always up at five in the morning doing my hair and makeup for two hours.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay well over time, you know that slows down, but I was still always didn't matter if I was just going to the store, I would always get ready. And I just I cared about what I looked like is really what it was.
Ariel Mirabal: I cared about what I I cared about my appearance and when I started drinking
Ariel Mirabal: That flew out the window. It didn't just go out the window. It blew up the window. I did not care what I looked like anymore. I didn't matter if I was in pajamas, going to the store. You know, I was Buffett's daughter. I didn't care. You know, I was just a mess mess.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is a this is a tricky one. For me, I struggle with this one. And I, it's a very difficult line for me to see sometimes
Gwenevere Abriel: Since I don't know you well enough, can, can we come back to that concept of appearance and come just real quick. Let me just assess something
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you doing your hair, doing your makeup caring about your appearance this morning.
Ariel Mirabal: I didn't do it this morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: What does it mean that you didn't
Gwenevere Abriel: See it. Now you see why it's like, well, maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Right when we
Gwenevere Abriel: Drop.
Gwenevere Abriel: A boss Oz. Right. It was beautiful. And we had it and we really appreciate it. It was beautiful and we put it back together.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's something else. It's not quite the same, maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: If we think about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can take maybe it was a relationship and it drops. Maybe we can decide. We don't want to put it back together again. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you sure
Gwenevere Abriel: What's, what's happening.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm sorry I'm walking in, said my daughter just woke up. Hi baby, come sit on the couch. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: You don't come outside your in your jammies.
Ariel Mirabal: Sorry. Give me one second.
Ariel Mirabal: A good one.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, let me let me set it on the couch, real quick.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we've got two more, two more minutes, and then you're ready.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh, most time
Ariel Mirabal: Most Christians on mommy's almost done. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Alright, just gonna turn on her little Cartoons for her.
Ariel Mirabal: Two more minutes. Okay, my little love.
Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, thank you. Sorry about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is maybe a bigger topic for us to explore at a later time. And we didn't get to the anchor room, but we're getting closer to figuring out what the dilemma will be that we're going to address in there. Okay, so you're you're right on time but that piece about the appearance part
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, you're reflecting back and saying, a sign of self esteem. Maybe. Is that what you're saying. Was I cared about what I look like.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: But I guess it doesn't really mean much that I didn't get ready today because
Ariel Mirabal: Even now, I mean I don't usually because we're kind of walked in our house. We're not going anywhere. So I don't usually like if I'm just staying home and stuff. I don't really usually get ready. And, you know, do my hair and makeup or anything, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And are you thinking about drinking just this. Is this a sign of wanting to drink. So it's more complicated than that, isn't it, it's not. Yeah. So that's why I'm putting a pin in that appearance thing because it's
Gwenevere Abriel: It typically and especially around with with women, right, because we have this this social stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think it takes a little bit longer to sit with a parents and what does it mean that I, hair done nails done. All done up like we got to sit within a little bit longer.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I did ask you to kind of think about the warning signs and we did go into that today, and I think that was that was effective. So again, just to review.
Gwenevere Abriel: Shut up. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Nice. No more niceness to the attic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know me nice be nesting.
Ariel Mirabal: I well
Gwenevere Abriel: And then breathe. Then take negative whatever that nasty voices, whatever, just set them on the distancing metaphor. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so
Ariel Mirabal: Everything was so helpful today. I really appreciate it very, very helpful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's really quick want to set another time to meet me see.
Ariel Mirabal: me get my pen.
Can
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess it can't see me there. Open up the next day eight o'clock on April 15 and instead of Tuesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can it be the following day Wednesday, April 15
Ariel Mirabal: Now, that's fine. And do you want to do a damn also
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, I wrote that down.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I will see you in group.
Ariel Mirabal: Already. See you tomorrow. Today's can do to you Thursday anchor. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You need me to send a message about medication or do you have enough to get you to Thursday.
Ariel Mirabal: No, actually I don't have enough to get
Gwenevere Abriel: My get a message, your doctor. Now I'm going to say she attended or individual therapy and then that Doc will take
Gwenevere Abriel: It from there.
Ariel Mirabal: Alrighty, thank you so much.
Gwenevere Abriel: You bet. Okay, bye bye
Good night.